Welcome to the “Connecting the Dots” Challenge
Rethink Reading. Rediscover Knowledge
What if every time you opened a PDF, it didn’t just sit there—it spoke to you,
connected ideas, and narrated meaning across your entire library?
That’s the future we’re building — and we want you to help shape it.
In the Connecting the Dots Challenge, your mission is to reimagine the humble
PDF as an intelligent, interactive experience—one that understands structure,
surfaces insights, and responds to you like a trusted research companion.
The Journey Ahead
•

Round 1:

Kick things off by building the brains — extract structured outlines from
raw PDFs with blazing speed and pinpoint accuracy. Then, power it up
with on-device intelligence that understands sections and links related
ideas together.
•

Round 2:

It’s showtime! Build a beautiful, intuitive reading webapp using Adobe’s
PDF Embed API. You will be using your Round 1 work to design a
futuristic webapp.
Why This Matters
In a world flooded with documents, what wins is not more content — it’s
context. You’re not just building tools — you’re building the future of how we
read, learn, and connect. No matter your background — ML hacker, UI builder,
or insight whisperer — this is your stage.
Are you in?
It’s time to read between the lines. Connect the dots. And build a PDF
experience that feels like magic. Let’s go.

Round 1A: Understand Your Document
Challenge Theme: Connecting the Dots Through Docs
Your Mission
You're handed a PDF — but instead of simply reading it, you're tasked with
making sense of it like a machine would. Your job is to extract a structured
outline of the document — essentially the Title, and headings like H1, H2, and
H3 — in a clean, hierarchical format.
This outline will be the foundation for the rest of your hackathon journey.
Why This Matters
PDFs are everywhere — but machines don’t naturally understand their
structure. By building an outline extractor, you’re enabling smarter document
experiences, like semantic search, recommendation systems, and insight
generation.
What You Need to Build
You must build a solution that:
•
•

•

Accepts a PDF file (up to 50 pages)
Extracts:
o Title
o Headings: H1, H2, H3 (with level and page number)
Outputs a valid JSON file in the format below:

{
"title": "Understanding AI",
"outline": [
{ "level": "H1", "text": "Introduction", "page": 1 },
{ "level": "H2", "text": "What is AI?", "page": 2 },
{ "level": "H3", "text": "History of AI", "page": 3 }
]
}
You Will Be Provided
1. A sample input PDF (e.g., sample.pdf)
2. A sample ground truth output (sample.json) for format clarity

3. Sample Dockerfile
4. Sample Solution
Docker Requirements
•

Please ensure your Dockerfile is compatible with AMD64
architecture. Since we will build and run the image on an AMD64
machine, your base image and any dependencies should support
linux/amd64. Optionally, you can include the following in your
Dockerfile to explicitly specify the platform: FROM -platform=linux/amd64 <base_image>
• CPU architecture: amd64 (x86_64)
• No GPU dependencies
• Model size (if used) ≤ 200MB
• Should work offline — no network/internet calls
•

Expected Execution
We will build the docker image using the following command:
```docker build --platform linux/amd64 -t
mysolutionname:somerandomidentifier```
After building the image, we will run the solution using the run command
specified in the submitted instructions.
```docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/input:/app/input -v $(pwd)/output:/app/output -network none mysolutionname:somerandomidentifier```
Your container should:
Automatically process all PDFs from /app/input directory,
generating a corresponding filename.json in /app/output for each
filename.pdf
• output.json
•

Constraints
Constraint
Requirement
Execution ≤ 10 seconds for a 50-page
time
PDF

Model size
Network

Runtime

≤ 200MB (if used)
No internet access
allowed
Must run on CPU (amd64),
your solution should run on
the system with 8 CPUs and
16 GB RAM configurations

Scoring Criteria
Criteria
Heading Detection Accuracy (Precision +
Recall)
Performance (Time & Size Compliance)
Bonus: Multilingual Handling (e.g.,
Japanese)
Total

Max
Points
25
10
10
45

Submission Checklist
1. Git Project with a working Dockerfile in the root director and
2. A working Dockerfile
3. All dependencies installed within the container
4. A README.md that explains:
o Your approach
o Any models or libraries used
o How to build and run your solution (This is purely for
documentation purpose, your solution should run using the
“Expected Execution” section above.
Pro Tips
Don’t rely solely on font sizes for heading level determination —
headings in some PDFs break that assumption.
• Test your solution across both simple and complex PDFs.
• Make your code modular — you’ll reuse this structure in Round
1B.
•

Important – Please keep your Git Repo private till the competition
deadline, you will be informed, when to make the repo public.
•

What Not to Do
•
•
•

Do not hardcode headings or file-specific logic
Do not make API or web calls
Do not exceed the runtime/model size constraints

[[Public Dataset Folder]]
(For Sample Input and Output Files, please refer to the appendix)

Round 1B: Persona-Driven Document Intelligence
Theme: “Connect What Matters — For the User Who Matters”
Challenge Brief (For Participants)
You will build a system that acts as an intelligent document analyst, extracting
and prioritizing the most relevant sections from a collection of documents based
on a specific persona and their job-to-be-done.
Input Specification
2. Document Collection: 3-10 related PDFs Persona Definition: Role
description with specific expertise and focus areas
3. Job-to-be-Done: Concrete task the persona needs to accomplish
Document collection, persona and job-to-be-done can be very diverse. So, the
solution that teams need to build needs to be generic to generalize to this
variety.
Documents can be from any domain (Example: Research papers,
school/college books, financial reports, news articles etc.)
• Persona can again be very diverse (Example: Researcher, Student,
Salesperson, Journalist, Entrepreneur etc)
• Job-to-be-done: This will be related to the persona (Example:
Provide a literature review for a given topic and available research
papers, What should I study for Organic Chemistry given the
chemistry documents, Summarize the financials of corporation xyz
given the detailed year end financial reports etc.)
•

Sample Test Cases
Test Case 1: Academic Research
Documents: 4 research papers on "Graph Neural Networks for
Drug Discovery"
• Persona: PhD Researcher in Computational Biology
• Job: "Prepare a comprehensive literature review focusing on
methodologies, datasets, and performance benchmarks"
•

Test Case 2: Business Analysis
Documents: 3 annual reports from competing tech companies
(2022-2024)
• Persona: Investment Analyst
• Job: "Analyze revenue trends, R&D investments, and market
positioning strategies"
•

Test Case 3: Educational Content
Documents: 5 chapters from organic chemistry textbooks
• Persona: Undergraduate Chemistry Student
• Job: "Identify key concepts and mechanisms for exam preparation
on reaction kinetics"
•

Required Output
•

Output JSON format: Refer challenge1b_output.json

The output should contain:
1. Metadata:
a. Input documents
b. Persona
c. Job to be done
d. Processing timestamp
2. Extracted Section:
a. Document
b. Page number
c. Section title
d. Importance_rank
3. Sub-section Analysis:
a. Document
b.
c. Refined Text
d. Page Number Constraints
• Must run on CPU only
• Model size ≤ 1GB
• Processing time ≤ 60 seconds for document collection (3-5
documents)
• No internet access allowed during execution

Deliverables
approach_explanation.md (300-500 words explaining
methodology)
• Dockerfile and execution instructions
•

Sample input/output for testing

•

Scoring Criteria
Criteria

Max
Points

Section Relevance

60

Sub-Section Relevance

40

Description
How well selected sections match
persona + job requirements with
proper stack ranking
Quality of granular subsection
extraction and ranking

Appendix:
https://github.com/jhaaj08/Adobe-IndiaHackathon25.git

